## Comparative Study of Ad-Hoc Network Routing Protocols in Landslide Scenarios Using ONE
<div>
<p>
Our aim in this paper is to simulate a scenario using ad-hoc networks, and opportunistic networks and to compare two benchmark algorithms aiding these networks using different metrics/ criterion based on the scenario. Opportunistic Networks (OppNETs) are special kinds of computer networks built over the paradigm of Ad-Hoc Networks (MANETs and VANETs), Unlike usual networking techniques where end-to-end connections are required to transfer the data. Opportunistic networks lack a path from source to destination and use transient connections.

In this paper, we will discuss and describe OppNETs and Information Centric Network Models in detail with various Delay / Disrupted Routing Protocols and how they can be implemented in a real-life scenario. We are using The Opportunistic Network Environment (ONE) simulator for the simulation setup. While discussing the scenario, we are taking two routing protocols into account for this experiment i.e. Epidemic Routing Protocol and Spray and Wait Routing Protocol. We will discuss and evaluate their performances under various circumstances. Our Scenario specifies the emergencies that might happen when a Natural Calamity especially landslides occurs and when the victims require fast and immediate supervision. We evaluated the performance and learned that Spray and Wait is a better Protocol than Epidemic and also discussed the challenges faced by these protocols. This paper will also discuss the pros and cons of DTNs in different scenarios.

There are multiple cases where floods and landslides have affected a lot of lives. According to the Nature Journal, several thousands of people die due to landslides every year mostly due to lack of help. Many victims have died because they were not able to get proper help in time and were stuck in debris for a long amount of time. In this paper, we will try and discuss a way to deliver emergency messages to rescue centers and hospitals as soon as possible with the use of Opportunistic and Delay Tolerant Networks so that help can reach the victims as soon as possible.

Opportunistic networks have gained attention and popularity in recent years and are becoming more and more well-known in the community of researchers all over the world. The most important fundamental of opportunistic networks is that there is no need for an underlying infrastructure (topology) and that it makes use of connections as and when they are available. In traditional networks, communication depends on the assumption that there is a steady connection or a path between the sender and receiver (topology is static). On the other hand, opportunistic networks and ad-hoc networks are different and do not need any predefined infrastructure. Communication occurs with the unpredictable nature of connections, which allows nodes to communicate as and when they come in each other’s range (proximity).
</p>
</div>